# Cyber-Attack-Analysis-India-Dataset

Cybersecurity breaches are one of the most crucial problems of modern times, disrupting essential operations, compromising sensitive data, and resulting in financial and reputational losses. According to the FBI report on cyberattacks,  55,851 complaints were filed alone for personal data breaches in 2023, while 298,878 phishing/spoofing frauds were reported, affecting the public and organizations worldwide, demonstrating the growing sophistication of malicious actors. Understanding the characteristics and trends of these attacks is not only necessary but also strategic for organizations that want to defend their systems effectively. Focusing on the importance of awareness of cyber attacks, we have a dataset concerning three types of attacks i.e. DDoS, Intrusion, and Malware happened in India. DDoS (Distributed Denial-of-Service) is a cyberattack in which multiple systems overwhelm a target (e.g., server, network, or website) with traffic, making it unavailable to legitimate users. Intrusion is defined as unauthorized access to a system or network, which is often accomplished by exploiting vulnerabilities or weaknesses. Malware is software intended to harm, exploit, or otherwise compromise a system or network. It operates covertly to disrupt functionality, steal data, or provide attackers unauthorized access so the question that we want to discuss is if the attack types (Malware. DDoS, Intrusion) are associated with severity levels (low, medium, high). Does a non-apple device have a greater proportion of high severity level attacks than an Apple device? Is the action taken associated with high-severity level attacks? Since the dataset used for analysis is not a real-world dataset. Instead, it is generated artificially to provide a realistic representation of cyber attacks on people’s devices (geo-location, timestamp) so there are no privacy concerns about location, user information (IP address, name), device information, and payload data. 
The Cyber Security dataset is a synthetic dataset generated by the Incribo data generation company. Due to privacy regulations, the real cyber security data resources are not public. The Incribo company mainly delivers high-quality synthetic datasets to engineering teams where accessing data is impossible. The company used an algorithm to simulate the data from the patterns and relationships learned from the original dataset to create a new dataset that can represent the original dataset and also ensure privacy while preserving it. There are multiple ways to generate a synthetic sample dataset but they tend to cost more and less representative of the original dataset. There are no resources found on which algorithm the company used. However, machine learning models are more often used to generate a synthetic sample dataset by training, testing, and fine-tuning the data. The subjects of the dataset are cybersecurity attacks in India from January 1st, 2020, to October 11th, 2023. It included the time the attacks occurred, the IP address of the target and the sender of the attack, the source port of the IP address of the target and the sender, the size of the attack, attack types, the action of the device taken, location of the device being attacked, the severity level of the attacks, and information of the device, etc…  The important variables are Attack type(Type of attack detected or suspected), Severity Type (The level of severity associated with an alert or event), Action Taken(Actions performed in response to detected threats or anomalies), Device Information (Information about the device involved in the network activity).
	Here comes the data analysis plan. For the question about the relationship of attack types (Malware. DDoS, Intrusion) with severity levels (low, medium, high), we are going to perform a Chi-square independence test with 
H0:  Attack types are independent of their severity level
 HA: Attack types are associated with their severity level. 
The condition of independence is satisfied because the dataset is randomly generated by the algorithm and the expected counts are satisfied since they are all greater than 5. For the question about if the non-apple devices would have a greater proportion of high severity level attacks than the Apple devices. We are going to perform a one-sided proportion test with group 1 being the Non-Apple Devices with Attack types of high severity levels and group 2 being the Apple Devices with Attack types of high severity levels. The hypothesis test would be set up as 
H0: p1 =  p2 and HA: p1 >  p2. 
The conditions are satisfied which are independence and the large counts that n1*p1_hat;  n2*p2_hat; n1*(1-p1_hat); n2*(1-p2_hat) which are all greater than 5. Lastly, to test if the action taken is associated with high-severity level attacks, the Chi-square independence test will be performed with 
H0: There is independence between Devices and actions taken for high-severity level attacks 
 HA: There is an association between devices and actions taken for high-severity level attacks. The conditions are satisfied as well which are independence and expected counts which are all greater than 5. A map of India with the number of attacks grouped by the states, and plots showing the relationship of attack types, device types, severity levels, and action taken will be included.



Reference: 
https://www.ic3.gov/AnnualReport/Reports/2023_IC3Report.pdf
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/teamincribo/cyber-security-attacks
https://incribo.com/
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC9920136/#sec6-sensors-23-01231
